
Welcome to the homepage of the Software Engineering (SeSa) Research Lab!

Our mission is to (1) understand how humans design, maintain, and evolve complex and artifial intelligence-enabled software systems, (2) produce actionable knowledge to inform the design of novel methods, techniques, and tools that increase the productivity of software engineers, other than the quality, trustworthiness, and dependability of the software they develop, and (3) educate the next generation of leaders in the software industries, both in terms of technical skills and ability to effectively collaborate with others.

We do this by engaging in interdisciplinary research and teaching. Our research applies and advances empirical software engineering, software maintenance and evolution, software engineering for artificial intelligence, software security and testing, computer-supported cooperative work, social computing, and project management methods. We are strongly committed on educating students on these themes by offering several Bachelor and Master courses, other than internship and thesis opportunities. 

Our broader, long-term vision is to move software engineering and software project management away from decisions based on intuition, error-prone development activities painstakingly conducted manually, and detrimental collaboration practices into evidence-based solutions which are supported by the data that software engineers produce during software development on a daily basis, and informed by novel theories and foundations on how humans interact with code, fellow developers, and project managers.

SeSa is logically split in multiple research departments specialized in the various areas of interest. You can find additional information about the composition of the lab and its members by looking at the Team menu. Under Research, you can find out our current research areas. Students looking for internship and/or thesis opportunities can find topics of interest, information, and documents in the Teaching area of the website. Feel free to reach out to us using the Contacts listed in the dedicated section!
